---
slug: animations
title: Notes about CSS Animations
by: carter
date: 2/21/2022
published: false
---

- everything starts with the transform property on CSS
- it allows you move a element in either the x, y, or z axis kinda like absolute
  positioning

  - it does not change the flow position of the element tho so you can still use
    relative positioning

- BIG NOTES ALERT: when using percents in the transorm statement it refers to
  the size of the element and not its parent element

- transform doesnt just have one input property. You can do many things like
  translate, which is like positioning, scale, which well scales the element.

- rotate! well it rotates the element
- you can use a few different units here deg or turns! like i could just be like
  transform: rotate(.5turn)

- skews are the finally one. and you should use degs for units :)

- transform origins! -- deciding where the element is going to start when it is
  transformed its default is the center of the element but you can move it
  anywhere you want even out side of the element... this doesnt just effect
  rotate it effects all the transforms i think maybe not translate

1+1=2 you can combine transform properties such as transform: translateX(0px)
rotate(46deg); but the order does matter if you rotate first youre going to have
a fun time debugging for a hour

okay example time

image we have two spheres one blue which a planet and one grey that is a moon on
the moon we apply a transform: rotate(360deg) translateX(80px). what is
happening is we are first moving the moon 80px to the right and then we are
rotating it 360deg. then since we translated the origin point is still in the
center of the blue circle so when we rotate we rotate around the original origin
point.

## Transition Property

how the transition property works!

transition: property duration timing-function delay transition: transform 6000ms
ease-in 300ms;

you can also feed in multiple properties just seperate with a comma at the end

wtf is a delay? delay allows you set a time before the animation returns to its
old state so if you set a delay of 3000ms or 3 seconds the animation will wait 3
seconds before reverting useful for things like a dropdown menu on a nav bar
giving you time to hover it

## Key(glock)Frame Animations

keyframes let you create custom timing for your animation. You want to reuse
keyframes when you can!

@keyframes slide-in { from { transform: translateX(-100%); } to { transform:
translateX(0%); } }

animation-direction controls the direction of the keyframe loop. default is
"normal" which goes from 0% to 100% reverse does the opposite of that
"alternate" reverses the direction every other time so it basically goes 0% to
100% and then 100% to 0%

## Fill Modes

after an animation is done running it packs it bags and gtfos so that means iif
you have opacity going from 100% to 0% it will snap back to 100% once the
animation duration is over.

this can be fixed with animation-fill-mode! using "fowards" will make sure the
state is kept at the end of the duration usining "backwards" is important when
you have a delay on your animation. Lets say you have cube set to 0% and you
want to fade it in and you have a delay of .5s. the cube will be opacity 100%
for those .5 seconds then start the animation. backwards makes sure the state is
kept even with a delay :)

"both" combines both of these which is quite peepopog.

## Animation timing

Not all animation need to start automatically when the page loads. We can hook
up into javascript/react to dynamically start them you can do this in a few ways
the first by just settinging the "animation:" css property to undefined or the
actual animation. Another way is doing a similiar thing but with the
"animation-play-state" property.

Animations vs Transitions (the over is 2 rounds) Keyframes (animations) can do a
few things transitions can not such as looped, multi-step, and pauseable
animations.

## Action Driven Animations

So sometimes you want a different animation for when when you hover something
and when you no longer hover it. To do this you can use two different transform
properties. So using hover as an example the enter animation should be declared
in the :hover tag and the exit in the normal tag

When doing this with things like modals opening and closing which do not use
pseduo tags we have to use one transition property and change its value with a
ternary statement

## Prefers Reduced Motion

Some people can get disorried with animation due to health issues. To help them
you can use a media query to disable animations. @media (prefers-reduced-motion:
no-preference) {.fancy-box { transition: transform 300ms; }}

Note: this is checking if they have "no-preference" which is the default value
if the user has not turn off animations. by checking the for this and declaring
animations makes it so the animation never exists if the the user prefers no
motion.

If we do it the other way we already delcare the animation in the normal tag and
then turn them off in the media query. Doing it the way above is simpler and
more efficient.

You can also get this media query in javascript by using const mediaQueryList =
window.matchMedia( '(prefers-reduced-motion: no-preference)' );
