---
slug: mdx-blog
title: MDX Blog with Next
by: carter olson
---

Yo fren! Im going to show ya'll how to make a mdx based nextjs blog just like
this one. I'll guide you through it and talk about my troubles. Hope this helps
you!! I'll be using hashnodes
[next-mdx-remote](https://github.com/hashicorp/next-mdx-remote) for this build.

<br />

I'm hosting my mdx files in my project and not in a database. First thing you
need to do is create a directory in your project for your mdx files, I called my
blogs and put this
[test mdx file](https://gist.githubusercontent.com/thapakazi/da3aede9dd57900c30e0c7a01b3e8329/raw/1a3378c27d2c15a5495f8adb6ddc1c2b0a7f4548/sample.md)
in there. So we have something we can render when testing. Feel free to
duplicate this file and change the title and slug for better testing. after
doing that create a directory in the pages folder and name it blogs. Place a
file into it called [slug].js/tsx depending on if your using typescript or
javascript. The "slug" part of the file can be anything you want but you have to
make sure you pass in the same word later on in getStaticPaths. I'll explain
more down below. The [] is a catch all that will allow us to create a template
file for each blog post.

<br />

### Gray Matter

You might of notice at the top of the test file there is some extra data in it
thats called Front-Matter (metadata). Gray matter is a package that allows you
to read the Front-Matter from a markdown file. Adding metadata to a markdown
file is down by putting a pair of "---" dashes at the top of your file think of
it almost like a block comment. So you will put all you metadata in between the
pairs in the following format. Key: Value for example: Slug: mdx-blog or Author:
Carter. It is up to you to put the metadata you want in this section I just
stuck with slug, author, and title for now.

```
---
slug: mdx-blog
title: MDX Blog With Next and Next-Remote-MDX
by: carter
---
```

### Get Static Paths

Since we will be building our blog at build time we will need a way to grab all
the paths to blog posts. We do this by getting all the files in the blog post
directory and then filtering out the information to get our slug. Notice that in
the params object we are returning we return only the slug. This is because we
named the file [slug] so we must return the same name in the params object.

<CodeBlock text={"mdx_blog"} langauge="jsx" />

### Get Static Props

In getting the static paths we get the context object from getStaticPaths but a
caveat is that context only contains the slug. You cannot pass any other data
directly in. This means we have to grab the file information again for each
slug. This time its more direct. We do not have to use a for loop we just grab
the file directly since on my website the slug is also the file name. If you do
not want this and want to name your files differently from the slugs you will
have to repeat something like above where you use a for loop and check if file
to see which one matches the grey matter info. We get all the information and
pass it as a prop into the component.

<CodeBlock text={"mdx_blog_getStaticProps"} langauge="jsx" />

### Get Static Props

My main component is extremely simple. All I do is set the header to the title
from the props and then pass the blog content into a next-mdx-remote component.
This component takes the data from the mdx file and renders it to html. You can
expand this component to add SEO related information to your blog posts or even
a header image. The options are pretty much endless. That also means you can add
as much info in your grey matter as you want.

<CodeBlock text={"mdx_blog_BlogComponent"} langauge="jsx" />
